Name: ZEXIN ZHANG


This file has been provided to help you structure your thoughts when discussing Lab 3, Part c with your marker. Some questions can be answered with a single sentence, some may require much longer answers. You are free to edit/rearrange this file as much as you want.

All questions should be answered for each of your chosen data structures. 


------------------------
Initial Expectations
------------------------


>> Do you expect this data structure to be preferable to the others on all inputs, most  inputs, some inputs? Why?

The hashset data structure should be preferable to the others on most inputs. Because hashset using a O(1) algorithm to calculate hashcode and locate the element. This will get good performance at insert and find opertion. 

bstree will get good performance and random data. and get a worse performance when data is sorted. This will cause bstree not blance.

>> Do you expect your answer to change if the order of the words in your input dictionary is in the best/worst case? Why?

The order of the words in dictionary  will not change hashset's performance , but  will influence bstree's performance. Because bstree will be not blance in the sorted data, the bstree will reduce to a linked list.


>> Can you phrase what you expect in terms of a one or two sentence hypothesis that you can test?

In sentence test, darray and bstree will got similay performance. 

------------------------
Experimental Design
------------------------


>> How are you going to define what it means for one data stucture to be preferable to another?

For some test data, if one data structure can process it use less time and less memory , then it can be preferable to others. 


>> Which conditions will you vary in your experiment? 

The process data and algorithm mode. 

>> How will you vary them? Why did you make these choices? Did you use theoretical complexities, best, worst and average cases to inform your decisions?

I create different data for the test. Evaluat their performance use the data. 

>> How will you generate the data for your experiments?

I use the generate.sh and random_strings.py generate some test data files.


>> How will you validate your findings?

After the first batch of test, I create another test suite to run another test time record. 


------------------------
Results and Analysis
------------------------


>> What results did you record?

I record every data structure's run time in the test. 

>> What does this tell you about the performance of the data structure?

For the same data test. hashset used the most less time. We can say that hashset get the best performance. 

>> What is the answer to the question "Under what conditions is it preferable to use this data structure?"

When the data size is small, dynamic array can be used, it has the worst performance in the three data structures. 

bstree can be used when the data is not sorted.  Sorted data will cause a bad performance in the bstree data structure.

hashset has the best performance in the three data structures.  It can be used in most conditions. 

